6.SOLIDITY , DEPLOYING YOUR FIRST SMART CONTRACT

In this lesson, we will deploy the contract to a real testnet, which fully simulates a live blockchain environment without using real Ether.

🔥 CAUTION:br
You could be tempted to immediately deploy this contract to the mainnet. As a general rule, I caution against this. Make sure to write tests, carry out audits and ensure the robustness of your contract before deploying it to production. However, for the sake of this demonstration, we're going to deploy this as a dummy contract on a testnet.

Before deploying, be always sure to make a compilation check. This ensures that the contract has no errors or warnings, and is fit for deployment.

Deployment on a testnet
We can start the deployment process by going into the deployment tab and switching from the local virtual environment (Remix VM) to the Injected Provider - MetaMask. This action will allow Remix to send requests and interact with your MetaMask account.

You will be then prompted to select an account from your MetaMask wallet. Once you've connected that account to Remix, you should see a confirmation that the account is properly linked and that you are using the Sepolia testnet.

Ensure you have enough Sepolia ETH in your account, which you can obtain from a faucet. Once your balance is sufficient, you can proceed by clicking the "Deploy" button.

Once the transaction is executed, the contract address will be listed under deployed contracts, along with the transaction details. This is how the deployment transaction is displayed on Etherscan,or any block explorer of your choice.

Contract interaction
Since the contract has been deployed, we can now interact with it and update the blockchain. For example, if you want to store a number, you can do so by clicking the button 'store': MetaMask will ask for another transaction confirmation, that will update the favorite number. We can check the details on etherscan at the deployed address:

👀❗IMPORTANT:br
View and pure functions will not send transactions

Conclusion
Deploying a Solidity contract to a testnet is a crucial step in the development process, allowing you to test its functionality in a live blockchain environment without the risk of using real Ether. Always remember to perform necessary audits and tests to confirm the contract's safety and correctness before deployment.
